content/blog/favorite-tech-readings/index.md, before:

---
title: favorite readings for tech
date: "2022-05-22T23:46:37.121Z"
description: "Notes on Necklace May 22th 2022"
tags: ["evolutionarydesign", "tdd", "algorithm"]
---

Keeping up with things to reads/watch and share the one that have influenced me in my thinking.

# favorite tech talks
- [Visualising software architecture with the C4 model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x2-rSnhpw0g&ab_channel=AgileontheBeach)
- [Integrated Tests Are a Scam By J.B. Rainsberger](https://vimeo.com/80533536)

# favorite books
- [refactoring by Martin Fowler](https://www.amazon.ca/Refactoring-Improving-Design-Existing-Code/dp/0134757599)

# to-read
- [Sleeping with the enemy, Gojko Adzic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hIMwTzAAQ-w&ab_channel=ThiagoGhisi)
- [Sufficiently Advanced Monitoring is Indistinguishable from Testing, Ed Keyes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uSo8i1N18oc&ab_channel=Google)
- [7 Secrets of Maintainable Codebases, Adam Tornhill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oDporwhToQ&ab_channel=GOTOConferences)
- [Test is Dead](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1jWe5rOu3g&ab_channel=GoogleTechTalks)
- [5 Books Every Software Developer Needs, Dave Farley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RfOYWeu5pGk&ab_channel=ContinuousDelivery)
- [Actionable Metrics for Predictability, Daniel Vacanti](https://vimeo.com/146545310)
- [Architecture: The Lost Years by Robert Martin](https://vimeo.com/68215570)
- [Being Glue By Tanya Reilly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KClAPipnKqw&ab_channel=LeadDev)
- [Learning and Coolness, Klaus Wuestefeld](http://klauswuestefeld.blogspot.com/2010/07/l-learning-and-coolness.html)
- [Strategizing Your Multimillion-Dollar Retirement Plan, Ryan Valles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_Hr-lqFAq0&ab_channel=InterviewKickstart)
- [Reinventing Software Quality By Gojko Adzic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8To_Nh68QPk&ab_channel=AgileTestingDays)
- [Real Software Engineering by Glenn Vanderburg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NP9AIUT9nos&ab_channel=Confreaks)
- [Scaling Yourself by Scott Hanselman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FS1mnISoG7U&ab_channel=GOTOConferences)
- [Creating Maintainable Automated Acceptance Test Suites by Jez Humble](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-L_2y6g5DI&ab_channel=JezHumble)
- [The Long Road by Sandro Mancuso](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vQDnW265XKU&ab_channel=DevTernityConference)
- [The present and future of native Graph Technology](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CQehnb6A6o&ab_channel=Neo4j)
- [Test all the f**ing time, Bryan Liles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwUR0kOVNs8&ab_channel=LeandroMarcucci)

Commit message:

update favorite readings for tech

content/blog/favorite-tech-readings/index.md, after:

---
title: favorite readings for tech
date: "2022-05-22T23:46:37.121Z"
description: "favorite readings for tech"
tags: ["evolutionarydesign", "tdd", "algorithm", "reading", "toread"]
---

Keeping up with things to reads/watch and share the one that have influenced me in my thinking.

# favorite tech talks
- [Visualising software architecture with the C4 model](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x2-rSnhpw0g&ab_channel=AgileontheBeach)
- [Integrated Tests Are a Scam By J.B. Rainsberger](https://vimeo.com/80533536)

# favorite books
- [refactoring by Martin Fowler](https://www.amazon.ca/Refactoring-Improving-Design-Existing-Code/dp/0134757599)

# to-read
- [Sleeping with the enemy, Gojko Adzic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hIMwTzAAQ-w&ab_channel=ThiagoGhisi)
- [Sufficiently Advanced Monitoring is Indistinguishable from Testing, Ed Keyes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uSo8i1N18oc&ab_channel=Google)
- [7 Secrets of Maintainable Codebases, Adam Tornhill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0oDporwhToQ&ab_channel=GOTOConferences)
- [Test is Dead](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1jWe5rOu3g&ab_channel=GoogleTechTalks)
- [5 Books Every Software Developer Needs, Dave Farley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RfOYWeu5pGk&ab_channel=ContinuousDelivery)
- [Actionable Metrics for Predictability, Daniel Vacanti](https://vimeo.com/146545310)
- [Architecture: The Lost Years by Robert Martin](https://vimeo.com/68215570)
- [Being Glue By Tanya Reilly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KClAPipnKqw&ab_channel=LeadDev)
- [Learning and Coolness, Klaus Wuestefeld](http://klauswuestefeld.blogspot.com/2010/07/l-learning-and-coolness.html)
- [Strategizing Your Multimillion-Dollar Retirement Plan, Ryan Valles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_Hr-lqFAq0&ab_channel=InterviewKickstart)
- [Reinventing Software Quality By Gojko Adzic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8To_Nh68QPk&ab_channel=AgileTestingDays)
- [Real Software Engineering by Glenn Vanderburg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NP9AIUT9nos&ab_channel=Confreaks)
- [Scaling Yourself by Scott Hanselman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FS1mnISoG7U&ab_channel=GOTOConferences)
- [Creating Maintainable Automated Acceptance Test Suites by Jez Humble](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-L_2y6g5DI&ab_channel=JezHumble)
- [The Long Road by Sandro Mancuso](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vQDnW265XKU&ab_channel=DevTernityConference)
- [The present and future of native Graph Technology](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CQehnb6A6o&ab_channel=Neo4j)
- [Test all the f**ing time, Bryan Liles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwUR0kOVNs8&ab_channel=LeandroMarcucci)
- [Make impacts not software, Gojko Adzic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GnK_n9Udhhs&ab_channel=AgileCroatia)
- [User Story Mapping, Jeff Patton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AzBuohuOU6g&ab_channel=SkillsMatter%28IncorporatingYOW%21Conferences%29)
- [Uncoupling, Michael Nygard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=69ZsszwycPU&ab_channel=DevOpsDaysDFW)
- [Enterprise Architecture = Architecting the Enterprise](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mS0AJLqmnvQ&ab_channel=SkillsMatter%28IncorporatingYOW%21Conferences%29)
- [tackling complexity in the heart of software](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dnUFEg68ESM&ab_channel=Domain-DrivenDesignEurope)
- [Continuous Delivery - Sounds Great But it won't work here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvWr29afDF8&ab_channel=AgileTestingDays)
