content/blog/learn-how-to-learn/index.md, before:

---
title: learning how to learn
date: "2021-12-27T22:12:03.284Z"
description: "learning how to learn"
tags: ["productivity", "learning"]
---

# Why?
  - reading/learning can be a "priceless opportunity to furnish your mind and enrich the quality of your life"
  - read/learn for better understanding of others and myself
  - read/learn to make fewer mistakes.
  - read/learn to increase knowledge
  - read/learn to find meaning
  - read/learn improves vocabulary, focus, memory and imagination
  - Odds are that no matter what you're working on, someone somewhere, who is smarter than you, has probably thought about your problem and put it into a book.
  - there are few things that hold us back and rob us our productivity, prosperity, positivity and peace of mind and reduce our capacity to think, focus, learn, grow, and be fully human
    - drowning in data and rapid change, we long for strategies and tools to regain some semblance of productivity, performance, and peace of mind
    - the fleeting ping of digital dopamine pleasure replaces our ability to sustain the attention necessary for deep relationships, deep learning or deep work
    - overuse of digital technology results in the breakdown of cognitive abilities. Short-term memory pathways will start to deteriorate from underuse if we overuse technology.
    - we're letting technology do much of our critical thinking and reasoning for us.

# Study group patterns
- [Study group patterns summary](/study-group-patterns-summary)

# [Learning knowledge]
- [learning knowledge summary](/learning-knowledge)

# [Mental Models](/mental-models)
- [mental models summary](/mental-models)

# [Learning Organization](/learning-organization)
- [learning organization summary](/learning-organization)

# Quotes

"Marking a book is literally an experience of your differences or agreements with the author. It is the highest respect you can pay him"

"I never allow myself to have an opinion on anything that I don't know the other side's argument better than they do"

"Doing the work required to hold on opinion means you can argue against yourself better than others can."

"what an investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected business. Note that word "selected": You don't have to be an expert on every company, or even many. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital"

"Teach thy tongue to say I do not know, and thou shalt progress"

"I'm no genius, I'm smart in spots - but I stay around those spots."

"any fool can know. The point is to understand"

"it takes one to know one"

**"the first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you're the easiest person to fool"**

**True experts recognize the limits of what they know what what they do not know. If they find themselves outside of their circle of competence, they keep quiet or simply say, "I don't know".**

**"Skim a lot of books, read a few. Immediately re-read the best ones twice."**

**The blank sheet primes your brain for what you're about to read and shows you what you're learning**

**reading a book should be a conversation between you and the author**

**understanding is a two way operation; the learner has to question himself and question the teacher. He even has to be willing to argue with the teacher, once he understands what the teacher is saying.**

**marking a book is literally an expression of your differences or your agreements with the author. It is the highest respect you can pay him**

"priceless opportunity to furnish your mind and enrich the quality of your life"

"The rich invest in time, the poor invest in money"

"Men who have made these discoveries before us are not our masters, but our guides"

"go to bed smarter than when you woke up"

"we don't read other people's opinions. We want to get the facts, and then think"

"when it comes to reading, you don't need to finish what you start"

"The pencil," he argues, "becomes the sign of your alertness while you read"

The person who says he knows what he thinks but cannot express it usually does not know what he thinks.

**"borrow liberally, combine uniquely, and create your bespoke blueprint."**

**"first you make your habits and then your habits make you"**

**"anything is good for your heart is good for you head"**

**lifelong learning adds years to your life and life to your years**

TEAM: Together Everyone Achieve More

be kind to yourself

learning is not solo, it's social

genius leaves clues

"What I hear, I forget. What I see, I remember. What I do, I understand"

there's no failure, only failure to learn.

practice makes progress

to understand is to know what to do

"the key to better comprehension is asking better questions"

you shall receive when you ask questions


# References
- https://home.mindvalley.com/quests/en/superbrain
- https://arlobelshee.com/learning-faster-and-more-deeply/#more-171
- https://www.visualcapitalist.com/12-ways-smarter-mental-models/
- https://medium.com/accelerated-intelligence/this-is-exactly-how-you-should-train-yourself-to-be-smarter-infographic-86d0d42ad41c
- https://fs.blog/the-art-of-reading-how-to-be-a-demanding-reader/
- https://fs.blog/the-work-required-to-have-an-opinion/
- https://fs.blog/how-to-read-a-book/
- https://fs.blog/circle-of-competence/
- https://fs.blog/reading/
- https://fs.blog/the-buffett-formula/
- https://waiyancan.com/limitless-upgrade-your-brain-jim-kwik-summary/
- https://www.getstoryshots.com/books/limitless-summary/
- https://www.sitrakaratsimba.com/limitless-upgrade-your-brain-learn-anything-faster-and-unlock-your-exceptional-life/
- https://theartofliving.com/how-to-read-a-book-summary/
- https://biglifejournal.com/blogs/blog/fixed-mindset-vs-growth-mindset-examples

Commit message:

update learning how to read

content/blog/learn-how-to-learn/index.md, after:

---
title: learning how to learn
date: "2021-12-27T22:12:03.284Z"
description: "learning how to learn"
tags: ["productivity", "learning"]
---

# Why?
  - reading/learning can be a "priceless opportunity to furnish your mind and enrich the quality of your life"
  - read/learn for better understanding of others and myself
  - read/learn to make fewer mistakes.
  - read/learn to increase knowledge
  - read/learn to find meaning
  - read/learn improves vocabulary, focus, memory and imagination
  - Odds are that no matter what you're working on, someone somewhere, who is smarter than you, has probably thought about your problem and put it into a book.
  - there are few things that hold us back and rob us our productivity, prosperity, positivity and peace of mind and reduce our capacity to think, focus, learn, grow, and be fully human
    - drowning in data and rapid change, we long for strategies and tools to regain some semblance of productivity, performance, and peace of mind
    - the fleeting ping of digital dopamine pleasure replaces our ability to sustain the attention necessary for deep relationships, deep learning or deep work
    - overuse of digital technology results in the breakdown of cognitive abilities. Short-term memory pathways will start to deteriorate from underuse if we overuse technology.
    - we're letting technology do much of our critical thinking and reasoning for us.

# Study group patterns
- [Study group patterns summary](/study-group-patterns-summary)

# Learning knowledge
- [learning knowledge summary](/learning-knowledge)

# How to Read
- [How to Read](/how-to-read)

# [Mental Models](/mental-models)
- [mental models summary](/mental-models)

# [Learning Organization](/learning-organization)
- [learning organization summary](/learning-organization)

# Quotes

"Marking a book is literally an experience of your differences or agreements with the author. It is the highest respect you can pay him"

"I never allow myself to have an opinion on anything that I don't know the other side's argument better than they do"

"Doing the work required to hold on opinion means you can argue against yourself better than others can."

"what an investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected business. Note that word "selected": You don't have to be an expert on every company, or even many. You only have to be able to evaluate companies within your circle of competence. The size of that circle is not very important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital"

"Teach thy tongue to say I do not know, and thou shalt progress"

"I'm no genius, I'm smart in spots - but I stay around those spots."

"any fool can know. The point is to understand"

"it takes one to know one"

**"the first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you're the easiest person to fool"**

**True experts recognize the limits of what they know what what they do not know. If they find themselves outside of their circle of competence, they keep quiet or simply say, "I don't know".**

**"Skim a lot of books, read a few. Immediately re-read the best ones twice."**

**The blank sheet primes your brain for what you're about to read and shows you what you're learning**

**reading a book should be a conversation between you and the author**

**understanding is a two way operation; the learner has to question himself and question the teacher. He even has to be willing to argue with the teacher, once he understands what the teacher is saying.**

**marking a book is literally an expression of your differences or your agreements with the author. It is the highest respect you can pay him**

"priceless opportunity to furnish your mind and enrich the quality of your life"

"The rich invest in time, the poor invest in money"

"Men who have made these discoveries before us are not our masters, but our guides"

"go to bed smarter than when you woke up"

"we don't read other people's opinions. We want to get the facts, and then think"

"when it comes to reading, you don't need to finish what you start"

"The pencil," he argues, "becomes the sign of your alertness while you read"

The person who says he knows what he thinks but cannot express it usually does not know what he thinks.

**"borrow liberally, combine uniquely, and create your bespoke blueprint."**

**"first you make your habits and then your habits make you"**

**"anything is good for your heart is good for you head"**

**lifelong learning adds years to your life and life to your years**

TEAM: Together Everyone Achieve More

be kind to yourself

learning is not solo, it's social

genius leaves clues

"What I hear, I forget. What I see, I remember. What I do, I understand"

there's no failure, only failure to learn.

practice makes progress

to understand is to know what to do

"the key to better comprehension is asking better questions"

you shall receive when you ask questions


# References
- https://home.mindvalley.com/quests/en/superbrain
- https://arlobelshee.com/learning-faster-and-more-deeply/#more-171
- https://www.visualcapitalist.com/12-ways-smarter-mental-models/
- https://medium.com/accelerated-intelligence/this-is-exactly-how-you-should-train-yourself-to-be-smarter-infographic-86d0d42ad41c
- https://fs.blog/the-art-of-reading-how-to-be-a-demanding-reader/
- https://fs.blog/the-work-required-to-have-an-opinion/
- https://fs.blog/how-to-read-a-book/
- https://fs.blog/circle-of-competence/
- https://fs.blog/reading/
- https://fs.blog/the-buffett-formula/
- https://waiyancan.com/limitless-upgrade-your-brain-jim-kwik-summary/
- https://www.getstoryshots.com/books/limitless-summary/
- https://www.sitrakaratsimba.com/limitless-upgrade-your-brain-learn-anything-faster-and-unlock-your-exceptional-life/
- https://theartofliving.com/how-to-read-a-book-summary/
- https://biglifejournal.com/blogs/blog/fixed-mindset-vs-growth-mindset-examples
